It feels so good
to be with my family
and friends.
When I’m with the brothers and sisters
in our congregation,
it’s the best place
I could be.
My children and I
are so happy now.
But it hasn’t always been
this way.
My parents were missionaries
when my mom got pregnant with me.
Mom and Dad were very zealous,
and people just assumed
that I would follow in their footsteps.
And for a while,
I did.
I was the model child
who was always
held up as an example.
Sure, the attention
boosted my self-confidence,
but it also put me
under enormous pressure.
It was like everyone
was watching me,
and I couldn’t make
a mistake.
In my mid-teens,
I began to feel torn.
I liked the truth,
but I felt so confined.
I didn’t tell
anyone how I felt.
I just pretended
that everything was all right
and went
through the motions.
I envied kids
who didn’t have to live
under so many restrictions.
And if they got
the truth later in life,
they got to experience
the best of both worlds.
I thought maybe
things would improve
after I graduated high school.
But then,
at my new job,
I met Eric.
He truly understood me.
He made me feel special,
and I loved him.
I loved him.
In many ways,
I felt free.
For the first time
in my life,
I could just do
what I wanted.
It wasn’t long
before our relationship became
intimate.
I felt guilt at first,
but after a while
it just seemed
that this is what two people
who love each other do.
And I was willing
to give up everything for him
—everything.
Looking back,
my parents tried hard
to do the right thing
—to do things Jehovah’s way.
But because I didn’t have
a hatred for what’s bad,
I couldn’t see anything wrong
with my choices.
This eventually led me
to do things I later regretted.
I ended up
getting disfellowshipped.
Sonja Ericsson
has been disfellowshipped.
It crushed my whole family.
Later,
my father explained to me
that I couldn’t remain
in the home
because I refused
to change my lifestyle.
He told me I was having
a negative effect
on my younger brother and sister.
Then I’m out of this house.
I was determined
to do what I wanted.
When I left
home that day,
all I could think
about was Eric.
I didn’t even care
that my parents’ hearts
were breaking.
I didn’t think
about the devastation
and disappointment
that I had caused them.
I blamed my parents
for my situation.
I even blamed Jehovah.
My family missed me so much
even after all I had done.
What helped them
to remain loyal to Jehovah
for the many years
that I was disfellowshipped?
It was the Bible account of Aaron.
Jehovah directly judged
two of Aaron’s sons
and put them to death.
In this case,
Jehovah asked Aaron
and his family not to mourn
in order to show
the entire nation
that they supported
Jehovah’s judgment.
Mom and Dad saw
that they needed to be loyal
just like Aaron.
They loved me
and wanted me
to come back to Jehovah.
I tried to contact them.
I just wanted to talk
and to hear their voice.
I missed being with my family.
And they thought
about reaching out to me.
But they knew that if they
had associated with me
even a little,
just to check on me,
that small dose of association
might have satisfied me.
It could have made me think
that there was no need
to return to Jehovah.
I was disfellowshipped
for more than 15 years.
I had two children now,
and as time went by,
I thought about their future.
I thought more and more
about returning to Jehovah
and the congregation.
But I didn’t feel worthy.
One day, two elders stopped by
and kindly reminded me
that Jehovah wants me
to return to him.
They showed me
Psalm 86:5,
where it says
that Jehovah is “ready to forgive.”
I thought about that verse
the rest of the day:
Jehovah is “ready to forgive.”
So I decided
to go to the Kingdom Hall
for the first time in many years.
. . . a feeling of remorse is healthy.
It can move us to take positive steps
to correct our mistakes.
It made me realize
just how far off track I had gotten.
I was determined
to qualify for reinstatement.
Nearly a year later,
my reinstatement
was announced
to the congregation.
Sonja Ericsson is reinstated
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I was so happy.
The brothers and sisters
welcomed me very warmly.
Being back together again
with my family and Jehovah
made me feel so good.
I knew this is
where I needed to be,
and I didn’t ever want
to leave again.
But when I’m alone,
I struggle with whether Jehovah
has really forgiven me.
One time,
I was so distraught
that I called my father for help.
He comforted me
with the words of Isaiah 1:18,
where Jehovah
says that our sins,
which are like scarlet
or crimson cloth,
can become white
like snow.
Then my father related
the Bible account of Manasseh.
Manasseh “did on a grand scale
what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes,
to offend him.”
He even sacrificed
his sons in false worship.
Eventually,
Manasseh genuinely repented
and Jehovah forgave him.
This Bible account
touched me deeply.
Now, I have to be willing
to forgive myself.
If Jehovah was willing
to forgive
the sins of Manasseh,
as bad as they were,
surely he has forgiven me.
What a blessing
to understand
that Jehovah forgives
in a large way,
and now
I’m truly happy!